# UT0501.015 - Tailor the message:Present emotional arguments

**Tactic:** [UTA05 - Influence](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may tailor their messages to evoke emotional responses that resonate with the source's feelings and sentiments. By appealing to the source's emotions, such as empathy, compassion, or excitement, the handler can establish a deeper connection and foster trust. This technique involves understanding the emotional triggers and motivations of the source to effectively influence their behavior. This technique is different from UT0501.006 - Tailoring: Emotions in the fact that this technique (UT0501.015) does not refer to mirroring the exact valence or emotion as the handler, but rather to the general idea of using persuasive arguments that focus on emotion rather than logic. Some personality profiles might be more easily persuaded by rational arguments, although vulnerability to these kinds of arguments will also depend on if the attitude we are trying to change (trusting the handler) is based on emotion or cognition. Emotional arguments seem to be more persuasive than rational arguments when the attitude is emotionally-based, although they seem to have a similar effect than rational arguments in cognitive-based attitudes104. Negociaciones “Hardcore”.’, Drafts of Economic Intelligence 4, no. 1 (2022): 1–14. Attitudes in Susceptibility to Affectively and Cognitively Based Persuasion’, Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin 25, no. 3 (1999): 363–81, https://doi.org/10.1177/0146167299025003008.
