# UT0501.004 - Tailor the message:Need for closure

**Tactic:** [UTA05 - Influence](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may tailor their messages to the source's need for closure, the psychological concept that describes the need to find definite answers and avoiding ambivalence 92 by providing conclusive responses and avoiding uncertainty in their conversations. This may enhance trust and persuasion. In particular, individuals with a low level of need for closure tend to be more vulnerable to messages that include certain persuasive variables, such as message repetition 93. On the other hand, sources with a high level of this need will be more easily persuaded if the message is communicated by an expert, especially when the source is on high elaboration 94, that is, when they have the capacity and motivation to think a lot about the topic. inteligencia económica y relaciones internacionales, no. 1 (2019): 1. inteligencia económica y relaciones internacionales, no. 1 (2019): 1. Social Psychology, Vol. 1 (Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications Ltd, 2012), 224–45, https://doi.org/10.4135/9781446249215.n12. Actitud Que Me Benefician?’, Journal of Economic & Business Intelligence , no. 1 (Incluye la presentación de la revista por parte del Editor-jefe Javier Oubiña Barbolla (2019): 35–41.

For example, if a source with a high need for closure is in an ambiguous situation, the handler may try to persuade them by giving them a definite answer and repeating it multiple times, making sure the message is clear and understood by the source. However, if the source has a low need for closure and, therefore, does not really care about definite answers, the handler can simply reference their expertise in the matter to persuade them.
