# UT0501.001 - Tailor the message:Perceptual filters (PALIO)

**Tactic:** [UTA05 - Influence](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may tailor their messages to the source’s most pervasive perceptual filter. This technique is based on the PALIO filter, a classification of the contents towards which a source directs their attention the most89. In this sense, the handler will primarily focus the content of their messages on one or more of the following contents, depending on where the source's attention tends to focus: people, actions, places, information or objects. This will, in turn, make the source feel more familiar and, therefore, comfortable with the handler. Education Research 23, no. 3 (2008): 454–66, https://doi.org/10.1093/her/cyn004; Monica Webb Hooper, Denise Rodríguez de Ybarra, and Elizabeth A. Baker, ‘The Effect of Placebo Tailoring on Smoking Cessation: A Randomized Controlled Trial’, Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology 81, no. 5 (2013): 800–809, https://doi.org/10.1037/a0032469. Hirsh, Sonia K. Kang, Galen V. Bodenhausen, 2012’, accessed 12 July 2024, https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/0956797611436349.hirsh inteligencia económica y relaciones internacionales, no. 1 (2019): 1.

For example, if a source tends to talk about the people they are with and the places they visit, in order to make the source focus on a certain piece of information they want them to remember, they could emphasize how nice the receptionist was or what a view a hotel had.
