# UT0501.013 - Tailor the message:Personality profile

**Tactic:** [UTA05 - Influence](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may tailor their messages based on the source's personality profile. By considering factors such as extroversion, psychoticism and neuroticism, the handler can customize their approach to resonate with the source's unique personality traits. This technique involves a previous screening of the personality and motivational profile of the source. For example, if during a chat conversation the handler is communicating with an extraverted source who tends to use a high volume of individual messages instead of one big message containing all the information, the handler will answer accordingly, answering to each message individually and conversing by using a similar number of messages to the source. Another example would be to have a neurotic source who tends to use highly emotional messages instead of rational ones, the handler's response may be adapted to match their style by using words referring to emotions, or sending emoticons and other multimedia content that references their or the source’s moods. Another example would be to talk with a source using verbal and non-verbal behaviors that resemble their own profile. This could include talking about how “cool” a party was and how many new people the handler met when speaking with an extraverted source, mentioning that they had previously dyed their hair purple or speaking about crime podcasts with a source with high psychoticism, or discussing anxiety-inducing stimuli and anxiety-reducing techniques with a neurotic individual. Although tailoring the message to the profile, that is, the combination of the three traits, and not just one trait would be the most effective way to apply this technique, it may not always be possible or worth the resources it requires. Therefore, tailoring may focus only on the dominant trait of the source. It must be noted that each trait and profile is more or less vulnerable to certain persuasive techniques and variables so, when applying this technique, other UTA05 Influence techniques should be considered and applied jointly.
