# UT0602.004 - Use incentives: Negative reinforcement

**Tactic:** [UTA06 - Control](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may utilize negative reinforcement by removing or reducing aversive stimuli or undesirable consequences following the display of desired behaviors by the source. Negative reinforcement involves the removal of something unpleasant to increase the likelihood of the desired behavior recurring. This technique can include alleviating stressors, relieving discomfort or eliminating threats or punishments previously imposed on the source. However, some considerations must be taken into account when dealing with rewards, either promised or given. Research shows that, once an activity that is done by pure enjoyment is externally rewarded (by someone else, and by using material rewards) the motivation to do said task decreases. In this way, the kind of reward that will be promised or given must be considered, as it can have a negative effect in intrinsically motivated sources. Moreover, sometimes the actual reward is not as effective as the source's anticipation for said reward, making the latter (an intrinsic reward) more effective than the former (an extrinsic reward). Regarding rewards, it is recommended to start the reinforcement of a never-done-before conduct with extrinsic rewards, and gradually transition to intrinsic rewards. As previously mentioned, an intrinsically motivated behavior can be externally reinforced with an extrinsic, material reward such as money in order to decrease motivation to continue said behavior. Finally, it should be previously pondered both if a source seems more susceptible to rewards or punishments, and what would the most effective rewards and punishments be for them.
