# UT0602.002 - Use incentives: Threaten with punishment

**Tactic:** [UTA06 - Control](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may threaten the source with punishments if they fail to comply with requests or exhibit behaviors contrary to trust-building. In this sense, a punishment is anything that decreases the probability of a behavior in the source, and thus will depend on their personality and motivational profile, amongst other characteristics. Punishments can be both positive (giving something that the source does not like, like a feeling of anxiety or physical violence120 ) or negative (taking away something the source enjoys, such as money or positive emotions). These punishments may include loss of privileges, exposure of sensitive information, or other forms of negative repercussions. However, it is crucial for the handler to use threats judiciously and consider the potential impact on the source's trust and cooperation. For example, the use of punishments is highly discouraged in certain situations and relationships whose objective is to gain trust. Although the use of punishments can be highly effective when shaping a behavior, the negative effects that come as a consequence must be considered. In order to correctly apply a punishment so as to reduce negative effects, the following considerations must be regarded121:

Choose a response to punish.It is better if it is a specific behavior than if it is a general category.

Optimize the conditions for achieving a desirable alternative response that is not punished. Choose an alternative behavior that can be reinforced (a behavior that will remain in the environment when the program ends), present signals that encourage an fact that what some individuals may consider a punishment (e. g.: physical pain), others may thoroughly enjoy and, therefore, may consider it a reward. the Impression of Relevant Experiences’, Social Neuroscience 10, no. 1 (2 January 2015): 16–26, https://doi.org/10.1080/17470919.2014.954732. fact that what some individuals may consider a punishment (eg: physical pain), others may thoroughly enjoy and, therefore, may consider it a reward.

increase in the frequency of the desirable behavior, and reinforce the desirable behavior by using rewards.

Minimize the causes of the behavior to be punished by identifying and eliminating discriminative stimuli (any stimulus that signals the availability of reinforcement or punishment following a particular behavior), especially at the beginning. Eliminate potential reinforcers of the unwanted behavior.

Choose an effective punishment and give it immediately after the behavior (it must be able to be presented at that moment). Moreover, the punisher cannot be paired with the reinforcement of the inappropriate behavior, which tends to happen when a punishment is presented too late after the unwanted behavior.

Present clear punitive discriminative stimuli. This can be done by explaining the program before starting, giving warning signs or reminders. However, this may not be possible in elicitation operations.

Administer punishment immediately afterwards every time the behavior is carried out, calmly and without pairing it with the reinforcement of such behavior.
