# UT0602.003 - Use incentives: Positive reinforcement

**Tactic:** [UTA06 - Control](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may apply positive reinforcement by providing rewards or favorable outcomes immediately following desired behaviors exhibited by the source, that is, giving the source something they want and enjoy. The handler must differentiate between intrinsic and extrinsic reinforcements. Intrinsic rewards are those that come from within oneself and are inherently satisfying, driven by internal factors such as personal enjoyment, fulfillment, or a sense of accomplishment. On the other hand, extrinsic rewards are those that come from external sources and are typically tangible or visible. In this sense, a reinforcement or reward is anything that increases the probability of a behavior in the source, either intrinsic or extrinsic, and thus will depend on their personality and motivational profile. Thus, this technique aims to strengthen the likelihood of the source repeating the behavior in the future. Positive reinforcements can take various forms, including verbal praise, tangible rewards, increased attention or status or other forms of positive feedback that the source finds rewarding. Intrinsic rewards are those that come from within oneself and are inherently satisfying, driven by internal factors such as personal enjoyment, fulfillment or a sense of accomplishment. On the other hand, extrinsic rewards are those that come from external sources and are typically tangible or visible. However, some considerations must be taken into account when dealing with rewards, either promised or given. Research shows that, once an activity that is done by pure enjoyment is externally rewarded (by someone else, and by using material rewards) the motivation to do said task decreases. In this way, the kind of reward that will be promised or given must be considered, as it can have a negative effect in intrinsically motivated sources. Moreover, sometimes the actual reward is not as effective as the source's anticipation for said reward, making the latter (an intrinsic reward) more effective than the former (an extrinsic reward). Regarding rewards, it is recommended to start the reinforcement of a never-done-before conduct with extrinsic rewards, and gradually transition to intrinsic rewards. As previously mentioned, an intrinsically motivated behavior can be externally reinforced with an extrinsic, material reward such as money in order to decrease motivation to continue said behavior. Finally, it should be previously pondered both if a source seems more susceptible to rewards or punishments, and what would the most effective rewards and punishments be for them.
