# UT0602 - Use incentives

**Tactic:** [UTA06 - Control](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may use incentives, meaning reinforcements, punishments or the promise of either of them, to ensure collaboration. The goal of this technique is to increase the probability of information-giving or any other behaviors that benefit the operation, as well as reducing the probability of conducts that do not benefit the operation. In order for the following subtechniques to be implemented, there is no need for the source to know that they are being subjected to a reinforcement or punishment program. The association between the incentive and the behavior that is being reinforced or punished will happen even if the receiver does not explicitly know their conduct is being reinforced or punished, while knowing that may make them feel manipulated, which can generate negative feelings towards the handler. However, including explicit rules about a specific behavior (“if you do A, you will receive B, but if you don’t, you will receive C”) can help shape said behavior easier116. A few considerations must be made in order to correctly apply an incentive 117. First and foremost, an incentive must be contingent with the behavior it is trying to shape. That is, the incentive must appear immediately after the behavior. Secondly, the chosen incentive must be useful for the specific source. For example, some people may find heart emoticons “cringy”, while others may feel happy or loved when they receive one. Thus, the handler must tailor the incentives to the person they are dealing with. In this way, reinforcements and punishments are exclusively defined by the effect they have on the individual’s behavior: if it strengthens a response, then it is a reinforcement, but if it debilitates a response, then it is a punishment for that person. For example, some people may like to be humiliated, which makes certain insults a reinforcement, whereas most people find being humiliated a clear punishment. Moreover, a reinforcement must be as intense as needed in order to have the required effect. In the case of punishments, however, it is advised to be really careful when applying them, choosing always the lowest intensity possible. The specifics of applying punishments are detailed in the following subtechniques. Thirdly, no matter how reinforcing or how desired an incentive usually is to the source, if they are satiated they will not find it reinforcing. However, if they have been deprived of an incentive, once they encounter it they will find it much more effective (much more reinforcing) than usual. For instance, a source who is used to dealing with compliments from lovers, friends, family or fans might not find them as reinforcing as someone who is not used to receiving them. Moreover, in order to increase or reduce the probability of a behavior, the handler must make sure there are no other contingencies (that is, no other reinforcements or punishments) affecting the conduct they are going to change. Finally, the correct application of these techniques requires a previous functional analysis in order to understand the current contingencies affecting the source’s behavior.
