# UT1001.003 - Detect deception risk: Detect deviation indicators

**Tactic:** [UTA10 - Counter](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may detect indicators of baseline deviation that may imply a higher risk of deceit. As it has been mentioned before, the detection of one deceit indicator or baseline deviation does not necessarily imply that the source is lying. In order to consider that the deceit risk has increased, multiple indicators must be detected and, even then, it does not mean that the source is necessarily lying. Deceit indicators may not be easily detected in chat conversations, which are a context in which the handler should focus on verbal and response time indicators. However, technical deception detection tools may be used if the handler has access to the camera of the source, or the source themselves contact by video. If a recording of the conversation can be registered, the information might be post-processed after the meeting for a more detailed postmortem analysis of the encounter. Similarly to the baseline deviation detection that takes place in physical interactions, caused by the neurological stress that lying brings130, some indicators that may also be useful in the virtual domain may include but are not limited to:

A change in response time

Pupil dilation or contraction

Eye contact variation

Eye openness variation

Cerebral Cortex (New York, N.Y.: 1991) 16, no. 2 (February 2006): 192–99, https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhi097; Nobuhito Abe et al., ‘Neural Correlates of True Memory, False Memory, and Deception’, Cerebral Cortex (New York, NY) 18, no. 12 (December 2008): 2811–19, https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhn037; Nobuhito Abe et al., ‘Deceiving Others: Distinct Neural Responses of the Prefrontal Cortex and Amygdala in Simple Fabrication and Deception with Social Interactions’, J. Cognitive Neuroscience 19, no. 2 (1 February 2007): 287–95, https://doi.org/10.1162/jocn.2007.19.2.287; Maria Serena Panasiti et al., ‘Thermal Signatures of Voluntary Deception in Ecological Conditions’, Scientific Reports 6 (13 October 2016): 35174, https://doi.org/10.1038/srep35174.

Blinking frequency variation

Contradiction between body language and verbal cues

Body manipulation frequency variation

Drinking more or other indicators of higher mouth dryness

Closed, tense lips

Defensive or tense body language

Spasiform movements

Silence variations

Faking emotions

Exaggeration

Voice volume and tone variations

Longer or shorter explanations

Speech changes

Avoiding questions

The alleged knowledge does not match the source's rank or position

Detail level variation

Self-serving information

Increased sweating

Increased facial redness

Source's appearance, language usage or technical vocabulary does not match their story

Repeating answers with the same wording (as if memorized)
