# UT0407.003 - Develop a baseline: Devices

**Tactic:** [UTA04 - Prepare](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may designate specific devices for communication with the source to develop a consistent baseline. This involves using consistent hardware (e. g., smartphones, laptops) and software (e. g., messaging apps, email clients) to ensure that all interactions maintain a uniform appearance and digital footprint. By limiting communication to designated devices, the handler can mitigate the risk of inadvertently revealing inconsistencies in the fake persona's identity or behavior. In this technique, the handler may opt to expose the type of device using. This can be intentionally done by deliberately exposing the device or application used to answer a message. For example, some applications add some metadata to the message announcing the name of the application used to publish the message such as “published with Tweetdeck” or “Sent from Android”. Alternatively, the use of a desktop app instead of a mobile app can be inferred from the types of messages shared. For example, mobile applications, when they have the spelling checking activated tend to start each message with a capitalized word. This is not the typical case when writing using a desktop application, where the user will have to deliberately use the capitalized letter exposing for an expert eye the fact that the conversation is not taking place from a mobile phone with the implications that this may have to maintain the alibi of the handler.
