# UT0409.005 - Prepare the approach: Select topics to be covered

**Tactic:** [UTA04 - Prepare](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may identify and prepare the main topics to be covered beforehand. This does not only include those topics related to the intelligence collection requirements, but also other issues that should be understood by the handler in order to have a normal conversation with that specific source.

The handler is trying to influence the source in order to get them to collaborate. This process includes obtaining and maintaining initial trust and rapport, as well as persuading the source by changing their attitude towards the idea of talking with them. The handler’s goal during this tactic is to exert psychological influence on the source in order to subsequently carry out Control and Impact techniques. It is advised to perform these actions without the source knowing they are being subjected to them, as this knowledge can generate reactance against the handler if the source feels they are being manipulated. Moreover, some of these techniques, specially those requiring knowledge of human psychology concepts and theories like the Elaboration Likelihood Model 86 of persuasion and personality theories, should be either carried out by an experienced handler with said knowledge or by an handler advised by an expert in these topics in order to be applied properly. It must be noted that, although building rapport is a necessary step prior to obtaining information, and should be specially considered during the first approaches, the techniques from this tactic should not be disregarded once initial trust is established, but rather should be considered during the whole of the relationship.
