# UT0901.002 - Exit contact: Anticipate a punishment for withdrawing the relationship

**Tactic:** [UTA09 - Exit](./README.md)

## Description

The handler may subtly warn or imply that disengagement or non-cooperation from the source could have negative repercussions. This technique is used cautiously, primarily as a psychological strategy to ensure compliance and discourage the source from severing ties or becoming uncooperative. The handler may hint at potential difficulties the source could face if they withdraw from the relationship, framing the ongoing cooperation as beneficial or the lesser of two evils. This is done subtly to maintain a cooperative stance rather than resorting to overt threats, which could damage the relationship. This subtechnique should be planned and executed while considering the personality and motivational profile of the source, as individual's with a lower extraversion and neuroticism tend to be more vulnerable to punishments. Moreover, the type of punishment, whether anticipated or given at the time of the exit, should also be tailored to the person. Therefore, this technique works best when combined with the behavioral techniques in UTA05 - Influence. In addition to these considerations, it must be noted that a punishment works best when an alternative behavior to the one that is being punished gets rewarded. In HUMINT cases, this can be applied by both subtly announcing the punishment a certain behavior, like talking to others about the relationship between the handler and the source, and rewarding an alternative, like explaining how beneficial it would be for the source to continue bringing information to the handler without anyone knowing.
